Rule and Regulation of Idir


Preamble
    We, the members of this Idir, hereby establish this rule and regulation to guide our activities and 
    operations as a voluntary association of mutual support and solidarity. We affirm our commitment to the values of 
    democracy, transparency, accountability, and cooperation. We aim to provide financial and social assistance to our members and 
    their families in times of need, especially in cases of death or serious illness. We also strive to promote the social and cultural 
    values of our community and contribute to its development.


Article 1: Name and Address

    The name of this Idir is (specify the name). The address of this Idir is (specify the address).


Article 2: Objectives

The objectives of this Idir are:
    To provide financial and social support to members and their families in case of death or serious illness
    To foster friendship, unity, and mutual respect among members
    To preserve and promote the cultural heritage and traditions of our community
    To participate in social and developmental activities that benefit our community


Article 3: Membership

    Any person who is above 18 years old, who resides in the area where this Idir operates, who shares the objectives of this Idir, 
    and who agrees to abide by this rule and regulation can apply for membership.
    The application for membership shall be submitted to the secretary of this Idir in writing, along with a recommendation letter from 
    an existing member.
    The application for membership shall be reviewed by the executive committee of this Idir within 15 days of its submission. The executive
    committee shall approve or reject the application by a simple majority vote.
    The applicant shall be notified of the decision of the executive committee in writing. If the application is approved, the applicant 
    shall pay an entrance fee (specify the amount) and sign an oath of allegiance to this Idir.
    The applicant shall become a full member of this Idir upon payment of the entrance fee and signing of the oath. The secretary shall 
    issue a membership card to the new member.
    A member has the right to participate in all activities and meetings of this Idir, to vote and be voted for any position in this Idir, 
    to receive financial and social assistance from this Idir in case of need, and to access any information or document related to this Idir.
    A member has the duty to pay monthly contributions (specify the amount) and any other fees decided by the general assembly of this Idir,
    to attend all meetings and activities of this Idir regularly, to respect and uphold this rule and regulation and any other decisions 
    made by this Idir, to cooperate with other members and officials of this Idir, and to protect the interests and reputation of this Idir.
    A member can resign from this Idir by submitting a written notice to the secretary at least 30 days before the effective date of resignation.
    A resigning member shall not be entitled to any refund or benefit from this Idir.
    A member can be suspended or expelled from this Idir by a decision of the executive committee for any serious violation of this rule and 
    regulation or any misconduct that harms the interests or reputation of this Idir. A suspended or expelled member shall be given a written notice 
    stating the reasons for suspension or expulsion and an opportunity to appeal to the general assembly within 15 days. A suspended or expelled
    member shall not be entitled to any benefit from this Idir until reinstated by the general assembly.


Article 4: Officials

    The officials of this Idir are: chairman, vice chairman, secretary, math personnel (ሂሣብ ሹም), main money holder, daily money collector,
    property buyer, shift supervisors (multivalued), auditors (multivalued).
    The officials shall be elected by secret ballot by the general assembly for a term of two years. No official shall serve more than two 
    consecutive terms in the same position.
    The officials shall form an executive committee that is responsible for managing the day-to-day affairs of this Idir. The executive committee shall 
    meet at least once a month and report its activities to the general assembly every six months.
    The chairman shall preside over all meetings of this Idir, represent this Idir in external relations, supervise all activities and operations of this Idir,
    coordinate with other officials, and perform any other duties assigned by the general assembly or the executive committee.
    The vice chairman shall assist the chairman in his/her duties and act as chairman in his/her absence or incapacity.
    The secretary shall keep all records and documents of this Idir, prepare and distribute the agenda and minutes of all meetings of this Idir, 
    handle all correspondence and communication of this Idir, issue membership cards and receipts, and perform any other duties assigned by 
    the chairman or the executive committee.
    The math personnel (ሂሣብ ሹም) shall control all income and expenditure of this Idir, prepare and present financial statements and
    reports to the general assembly and the executive committee, maintain a ledger and a cash book, and perform any other duties assigned by the 
    chairman or the executive committee.
    The main money holder shall receive money from the math personnel and deposit it in the bank account of this Idir, withdraw money from the bank
    account as authorized by the executive committee, keep a record of all transactions, and perform any other duties assigned by the chairman or 
    the executive committee.
    The daily money collector shall collect money from members in monthly or other payments, issue receipts to members, deliver the money to the 
    math personnel, keep a record of all collections, and perform any other duties assigned by the chairman or the executive committee.
    The property buyer shall buy things that this Idir needs, such as chairs, tables, tents, etc., as authorized by the executive committee, 
    keep a record of all purchases, and perform any other duties assigned by the chairman or the executive committee.
    The shift supervisors shall supervise funerals and other ceremonies where this Idir is involved, arrange for transportation and logistics, 
    ensure that members fulfill their obligations, keep a record of all activities, and perform any other duties assigned by the chairman or the executive committee.